

Enter Macbeths Wife alone with a Letter.

  Lady. They met me in the day of success: and I haue
learned by the perfect report, they haue more in them, then
mortall knowledge. When I burnt in desire to question them
further, they made themselues Ayre, into which they vanished.
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came Missiues from
the King, who all-hailed me Thane of Cawdor, by which Title
before, these weyward Sisters saluted me, and referred me to
the comming on of time, with hail King that shalt be. This
haue I thought good to deliuer thee (my dearest Partner of
Greatness) that thou might not loos the dues of reioycing
by being ignorant of what Greatness is promised thee. Lay
it to thy heart and farewell.
Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
What thou art promised: yet doe I fear thy Nature,
It is too full o'th' Milke of humane kindness,
To catch the neerest way. Thou would be great,
Art not without Ambition, but without
The illness should attend it. What thou would highly,
That would thou holily: would not play false,
And yet would wrongly winne.
Thould haue, great Glamys, that which crys,
Thus thou must doe, if thou haue it;
And that which rather thou do fear to doe,
Then wishest should be vndone. High thee hither,
That I may powre my Spirits in thine Eare,
And chastise with the valour of my Tongue
All that impeides thee from the Golden Round,
Which Fate and Metaphysicall ayde doth seem
To haue thee crowned withall.
Enter Messenger.

What is your tidings?
  Mess. The King comes here to Night

   Lady. Thou'rt mad to say it.
Is not thy Master with him? who, wer't so,
Would haue informed for preparation

   Mess. So pleas you, it is true: our Thane is comming:
One of my fellows had the speed of him;
Who almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Then would make vp his Message

   Lady. Giue him tending,
He brings great news,

Exit Messenger.

The Rauen himselfe is hoarse,
That croakes the fatall entrance of Duncan
Vnder my Battlements. Come you Spirits,
That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,
And fill me from the Crowne to the Toe, top-full
Of direst Crueltie: make thick my blood,
Stop vp th' access, and passage to Remorse,
That no compunctious visitings of Nature
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peac between
Th' effect, and hit. Come to my Womans Brests,
And take my Milke for Gall, you murth'ring Ministers,
Where-euer, in your sightless substances,
You wait on Natures Mischief. Come thick Night,
And pall thee in the dunnest smoak of Hell,

That my keen Knife see not the Wound it makes,
Nor Heauen peep through the Blanket of the darke,
To cry, hold, hold.
Enter Macbeth.

Great Glamys, worthy Cawdor,
Greater then both, by the all-hail hereafter,
Thy Letters haue transported me beyond
This ignorant present, and I feel now
The future in the instant

   Macb. My dearest Loue,
Duncan comes here to Night

   Lady. And when goes hence?
  Macb. To morrow, as he purposes

   Lady. O neuer,
Shall Sunne that Morrow see.
Your Face, my Thane, is as a Book, where men
May read strange matters, to beguil the time.
Look like the time, bear welcome in your Eye,
Your Hand, your Tongue: look like th' innocent flower,
But be the Serpent vnder't. He that's comming,
Must be prouided for: and you shall put
This Nights great Business into my dispatch,
Which shall to all our Nights, and Days to come,
Giue solely soueraigne sway, and Masterdome

   Macb. We will speak further,
  Lady. Onely look vp clear:
To alter fauor, euer is to fear:
Leaue all the rest to me.

Exeunt.


